    Title: Lab 08
    Date: 2022-10-06T12:48:55
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 08 - Running JavaScript / JavaScript funtions / Node.js modules
=================================================================

In Lab 08, I started learning a new language which is "JavaScript". I learned few ways to run a JavaScript program such as in a file, in a browser, and in the REPL. ```console.log("Hello World");``` is the print statement for JavaScript which I use to print text. Also, the commande to run the JavaScript programs in the terminal is "```node file.js```". Just like in Racket, I was able to run commands in the REPL. Also, I learned to translate Racket expressions into JavaScript like "```(* (+ 1 2 3) 7)```" Moreoever, I learned about JavaScript equality and type coercion. Type coercion is a very important part in JavaScript. Type coercion is the automatic conversion of values from a data type to another. I used some reference given in the lab material to understand the conept and practice. I also use external materials to understand the concept further. [Type Coercion](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Type_coercion "Type Coercion"). We can use "```===```" to avoid type coercion which is called strict equality checker. I also learned about JavaScript functions and how it is similar to racket functions. "```let```" evaluates the val-exprs left to right and create a new location for each id, but assignment assigns the result individually to the ids using. "```return```" is mandotary in java because it ends the function execution and specifies a value to be returned to the function caller. Arrow functions are different from anonymous functions because arrow functions provide lexical binding which means that it is possible to get the control back on the value of this inside the function's body. Anonymous function are just functions declarations without a name.

I have learned JavaScript before and because of that it waseasy for me to understand the concepts I learned in this lab. However, I was able to improve my knowledge by practicing the questions that was given in the lab.

It was interesting to know how Racket functions can be converted to JavaScript functions and to see how different they are when compared.

Video clip was given in the lab material which is interesting and It helped me to bring back my knowkledge about JavaScript.

 
```Number Of Words: 485, ```
```Average Reading Time: 5-6 minutes```

<!-- more -->

