    Title: Lab 19
    Date: 2022-11-24T18:04:00
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 19 - Working With Grids / Defining and testing a function / Making 3D plots
================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 19, I learned how to work with grids and Octave has  a notation for arrays that we can use to initialize arrays <i>r = [-1:0.5:1]</i>. Also, there is a built in function called <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/octave/doc/v4.2.1/Three_002dDimensional-Plots.html#XREFmeshgrid">meshgrid</a> where it gives cartesian products of two arrays. Moreover, we can plot the surface with <i>surf()</i>  However, the more points we will use the surface will be smoother. In addition, I learned to define a test and a testing function where I practiced that using a math equation which is <i>δ(β, a, b) = βa·b - (β-1)b·b</i>. I used the following program to define a the test cases.
</p>
<pre>
## compute βa·b - (β-1)b·b
## a, b are assumed to be column vectors, beta is a scalar
    
function ret = delta(beta, a, b)
  ret = beta*dot(a,b) - (beta-1)*dot(b,b)
endfunction


%% delta(0,a,b) = |b|²
%!test
%! a = rand(2,1);
%!b = rand(2,1);
%!assert(delta(0,a,b),norm(b)^2,eps);

%% delta(1,a,b) = a.b
%!test
%!a=rand(2,1);
%!b=rand(2,1);
%!assert(delta(1,a,b), dot(a,b), eps);

%% delta(2,a,b) = 2a.b - |b|²
%!test
%!a =rand(2,1);
%!b=rand(2,1);
%!assert(delta(2,a,b), 2*dot(a,b)-norm(b)^2,eps);
</pre>
<p>
Plotting surfaces is quite new to me and I and working with grids as well because I have never worked with grids before in any other language.
</p>
<p>
I practiced defining test cases and plotting 3D plots and creating surfaces as well.
</p>
<p>
The plotting 3D plots is very interesting because it graphically very nice to see and we are able to rotate the graph and identify all the point which is easier if we are doing linear algebra.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a reference was given to learn more about Octave unit testing. <a href="https://docs.octave.org/v4.0.3/Test-Functions.html">Octave unit testing</a>. Also, another reference was given to learn about octave anonymous functions. <a href="https://docs.octave.org/v4.2.0/Anonymous-Functions.html">octave anonymous functions</a>.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 390 ```
```Average Reading Time: 2-3 minutes```

<!-- more -->

