    Title: Lab 06
    Date: 2022-09-28T21:23:26
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 06 - Hash Tables / Explorer / JSON
=================================================================

In lab 06, I learned about "hash tables". Hash map is another name for hash table which is a data structure that implements associative array or dictionary. It maps keys to values. Also, immutable hash table can be updated as the same way as lists are updated by returning a new updated data structure. [Hash Tables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_table "Hash Tables"). Also, I learned how to use "Explorer" in racket. "Explorer" in Racket is a utility for interactive exploration of complex data structure. Java immutable hash tables and racket immutable hash tables are different because the initial default capacity of hashtable class in java is 11. However, both has similarities such as both hash tables are synchronized and doesn't allow null key or value. In java, if the hash table key is mutable in java then the ```hashCode()``` of the key will not be consistent anymore and will cause failure and will cause memory leak [Mutability](Mutability "Mutability"). Also, I learned about parsing JSON file and extracting the desired data in this lab.

All the concepts I learned in this lab was new to me except for parsing JSON files because I learned about parsing JSON files in "CS1083". Hash Tables and Explorer were new concepts for me, but I was able to successfully understand both the concepts with the material provided in the lab.

I practiced parsing and extracting desired data using JSON files and I also learned how to use and update hash tables with the exercises provided in the lab. I was able to practice my skill on using explorer.

Hash table was quite interesting to me since it was my first time that I saw Hash tables. I have heard about hash tables before, but I did not get a chance to work with hash tables. Also, I find that hash table is a very important data structure while programming.

In the end of the lab an additional exercise was given to practice hash tables using the tail recursion which was hard for me, but after playing with the sample program for a while, I figured out how to implement tail recursion with hash tables.



 
```Number Of Words: 480, ```
```Average Reading Time: 5-6 minutes```


<!-- more -->

