    Title: Lab 17
    Date: 2022-11-17T14:39:12
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 17 - Generators / Fibonacci / Sieve / Performance Comparison
================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 17, I learned about generators in python and the first generator example from the book is the <i>make_counter(x)</i>. After, I run the program I was able to see a delay and I used the <i>pudb3</i> debugger to trace the code and I could see that <i>next</i> and <i>yield</i> jump back and forth between two sequences of execution. Also, I learned about Fibonacci number program by the second generator example given in the book which is <i>fib(max)</i>. In addition, I used the Sieve practice problem to practice python generators. Also, I did performance comparison using the practice problem that was given in the lab and the most common tradeoffs in computing is time versus memory. There is a technique calle memoization uses more memory to cache answers. There is a opposite tradeoff, using more time for less memory. I used the following practice problem to compare the benefits,
</p>
<pre>
import sieve
import sievegen
import timeit

print('sieve={:s}'.format(str(sieve.sieve(10))))
print('sievegen={:s}'.format(str(sievegen.sieve(10))))

print(timeit.timeit("sieve.sieve(10000)","import sieve",number=100))
print(timeit.timeit("sievegen.sieve(10000)", "import sievegen",number=100))
print(timeit.timeit("[x for x in sievegen.sieve(10000)]", "import sievegen",number=100))
</pre>
<p>
Memoization was a new concept for me since I have not learned that concept and it is interesting that how you can make your code efficient and faster with these kind of techniques.
</p>
<p>
I practiced writing generators with the problems given to me in the lab such as <i>fib(max)</i> and <i>make_counter(x)</i>.
</p>
<p>
It is interesting how the techniques like memoization helps to improve the execution speed of the code and there is always a tradeoff.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a very good resouce was given to read to learn more about python concepts called <a href="http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/your-first-python-program.html#divingin">DiP3</a> which is very useful and informative. Also, a  <a href="http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/generators.html">Closures & Generators</a> reference was given in the lab to read and get familiarized with the topic. 
</p>

```Number Of Words: 402 ```
```Average Reading Time: 2-3 minutes```
<!-- more -->

