    Title: Lab 18
    Date: 2022-11-22T15:47:02
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 18 - Counter, Generator, and Classes / Running Octave / Fibonaccci as matrix multiplication / Performance Comparison
================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 18, I learned about Python counter, generators, and classes. I used examples from Lab 17 to practice some of these concepts. However, in this lab I used a compatible interface by implementing a python class. I could observe that the implimentation is closer to the closure based version of Lab 17 than the original generator version. Also, I used the Fibonacci example from Lab 17 and improved it to use with the generator from the Lab 18. Also, I started learning a new language which is called Octave. Ocatve has a GUI unlike other languages where you can start the GUI by running the command <i>ocatve --gui</i> or can access the REPL by running the command <i>octave<i> in the command prompt. My first program with octave was Fibonacci where I practiced running octave programs. Moreover, I wrote some unit test cases and also I learned about Fibonacci as matrix multiplication. I also did some perforamce comparison and I found that loops are generally slower than matrix operations which can be done in a single call to an optimized library. This is strategy is generally called vectorization and applies in variety of languages. I used the following program to do the comparison,
</p>
<pre>
# Based on an example from the Julia microbenchmark suite.

function timeit(func, argument, reps)
    times = zeros(reps, 1);

    for i=1:reps
      tic(); func(argument); times(i) = toc();
    end

    times = sort(times);
    fprintf ('%s\tmedian=%.3fms mean=%.3fms total=%.3fms\n',func2str(func), median(times)*1000,
             mean(times)*1000, sum(times)*1000);
endfunction
</pre>
<p>
Octave is a new language for me, but I have heard about octave before. I have used MATLAB before and I find octave is similar to MATLAB except for some features.
</p>
<p>
I practiced writing python classes with counter and generators which was interesting. Moreover, I practiced writing Fibonacci numbers in python and octave as well.
</p>
<p>
The vectorization stratergy is amazing where using matrix operations is faster than using loops.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a reference was given to learn more about octave where I could find all the documentation for octave and it is very easy to understand as well. <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/octave/doc/interpreter/Timing-Utilities.html">Octave</a>. Also, another reference was given to learn about octave function handles where I could read about function handles. <a href="https://docs.octave.org/interpreter/Function-Handles.html#Function-Handles">Function Handles</a>.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 410 ```
```Average Reading Time: 3-4 minutes```

<!-- more -->

