    Title: Lab 23
    Date: 2022-12-08T10:17:18
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 23 - K nearest neighbour / Visualizing boxes / Vectorizing nearest / Using rowfun
================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 22, I learned about using <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-nearest_neighbors_algorithm">k-nearest neighbors algorithm</a> which is a famous machine learning or pattern classification algorithm. A training set of numerical measurement vectors given in this algorithm each labelled with a clas. Also, given a new, unlabelled measurement, the algorithm predicts the corresponding class by looking at the k-closest training vectors, and voting. I practiced this algorithm by completing the practice problem that was given in the lab. In addition, I learned about visualizing boxes using plotting some plots with different ranges. I used rowfun function to complete the loop-free version of <i>knn</i>. However, it did not show a huge performance benefit. The completed program is as follows,
</p>
<pre>
function out=rowfun(fun,mat)
  cells = num2cell(mat, 2)
  out = cellfun(fun, cells)
endfunction

%!test
%!shared data
%! data = [0,0,0; 0,0,1; 0,1,0; 1,1,1];
%! assert(rowfun(@norm,data), [0;1;1;sqrt(3)], eps)

%!assert(rowfun(@(v)(dot(v,v)),data), [0;1;1;3], eps)

%!assert(rowfun(@prod,data), [0;0;0;1], eps)

</pre>
<p>
K nearest neighbour algorithm was hard for me to understand since I have not worked with that before and I have not even heard of it, but after reading the materials given in the lab, I was able to understand the concept.
</p>
<p>
I practiced using rowfun function and this lab was more helpful to understand the rowfun since I used it after the last lab.
</p>
<p>
K nearest neighbour algorithm was interesting and I got to read some articles regarding this algorithm and it is interesting how this algorithm is used in machine learning concepts.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, many reference materials were given which were so helpful because the materials were clearly written and understandable for beginners as well.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 370 ```
```Average Reading Time: 2-3 minutes```


<!-- more -->

