    Title: Lab 04
    Date: 2022-09-22T12:21:06
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 04 - Functions as Values / Recursion / Scribble / Modules
=================================================================

Questions from the previous Lab
-------------------------------

Testing is very important for dynamically because of the design of the language. An object oriented language is designed to mutate the state and change it around. Also, many of the object oriented languages facilitate visibility and access of shared internal state such as encapsulation, scoping. When a state mutates in any language, testing is the best option to make sure everything is working fine. [Dynamically Typed Languages](https://www.codemag.com/article/1206051/The-%E2%80%9CDanger%E2%80%9D-of-Dynamic-Languages "Dynamically Typed Languages").

Some software problems are hard to find with testing. For instance, Calculation errors and logic errors are hard to find with testing. Sometimes data type mismatch causes calculation errors.

It is hard to do unit testing for mutable state because it is hard to predict and maintain because the behavior of a method that depends on mutable global state is not possible to predict by checking th source code. Therefore, it is important to consider the current value and the sequence of events that could change it earlier.

Lab - 04
--------------------


1. ```#lang racket, #lang slideshow``` - This is very similar to importing packages in Java.


2. ```(+ 1 2)``` - This is similar to returning the addition of 1 and 2.


3. ```(rectangle 10 10)``` - Similar to a method called in Java passing values.


4. ```(define r 10)``` - similar to initializing vaiable in Java (int r = 10;).


5. ```(define (square x) (rectangle x x))``` - Declaring a method.


6. ```(colorize (square 10) "red")``` - Method Call


7. ```(let* ([x 10] [y (+ x 10)]) (* x y))``` - int x = 10; int y = x+10; return x*y;

Racket functions are very useful and apply function is one function that we learned in the lab and it helps to reduce the repeated code in definitions. Basically, apply function collect all the arguments and make it as one argument and then can also add it to a list. Also, recursion is one of the new concepts learned in the Lab 04. Recursion is very useful and it has many advantages and disadvantages as well. Scribble is also a new concept which is a markup language by frog. Scribble is easily extensible using Racket. Also, Scribble a good example for a Domain Specific Language and it is for producing documents. Also, learnt about Racket Modules, submodules, require and provide.

I learned how to write modules and functions in racket effectively in this lab. I was able to understand unit testing very well. Also, I was able to practice Git Bisect in this lab which helped me to understand that concept very well. The modules were interesting to me because it is similar to java methods, but in java we use a totally differeny syntax to create a method.

In this lab we were given to read the racket guide to understand Modules. However, when I read it first I did not understand it properly, after reading it carefully I was able to understand it fully.

```Number Of Words: 488, ```
```Average Reading Time: 5-6 minutes```

<!-- more -->

