    Title: Lab 09
    Date: 2022-10-13T13:18:12
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 09 - Jasmin / Test Modules / Test Coverage / Node Debugger / JavaScript Objects / JSON
=================================================================

In Lab 09, I learned about Jasmine which is a behavior driven development framework for testing JavaScript code and it does not depend on any other JavaScript frameworks. I use "```jasmine init path```" command to create jasmine configuration under "```spec```". Also, I can run the tests with "```jasmine```" command. Also, as references I used [Jasmine Documents](https://jasmine.github.io/tutorials/your_first_suite "Jasmine Documents") to practice and understand further. The jasmine tests are different from racket because we have to run Jasmine tests from the command line unlike rackunit. I wrote test modules to check test suites as well. Also, I learned about test coverage. We need to use another tool to get test coverage information which is "```nyc```". We can use the "```nyc jasmine```" command to get test coverage information. I added an incorrect function and checked how test coverage works. I learned how to use the debugger in the lab, but "Chromium DevTools" did not work in my lab computer and because of that I had to use the command line debugger. However, I manage to find a workaround for that issue and I was able to use the Chromium DevTools. Moreover, I learned about JavaScript objects and I find it is very similar to Java object calls and creations. Furthermore, I learned about parsing JSON and it was different from how we did it in Racket.

Jasmine was familiar to me because I have worked with Jasmine before and also writing test modules was easy for me as I have done that before. Test coverage was new to me since I have not done that before, but since I have done the test coverage in Racket it was not that hard for me to understand. Parsing JSON was new to me in JavaScript even though I have done it in Racket because it is very different how we do it Racket.

I practiced writing test modules and I was able to polish my knowledge in writing test modules because I did not write test modules in Jasmine recently.

I was surprised that Chromium debugger did not work on my lab computer and I discussed with my professor regarding the issue and I found a workaround after discussing with him and I was able to get it to work and until that I used the command kind Node debugger.

We were given to read the jasmine tutorial and practice some coding to get familiar with Jasmine which helped to understand most of the jasmine concepts.


 
```Number Of Words: 495, ```
```Average Reading Time: 6-7 minutes```

<!-- more -->

