    Title: Lab 11
    Date: 2022-10-20T11:34:00
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 11 - Deep Comparison / Variadic Functions / Representing a graph
=======================================================================================

In Lab 11, I learned about JavaScript deep comparison. In fact, deep comparison is used to determine whether objects are equal by comparing each property in the operands. Racket has a built in function to do the work, but JavaScript does not have the function unfortunately [Deep Comparison](https://www.syncfusion.com/blogs/post/5-different-ways-to-deep-compare-javascript-objects.aspx#:~:text=Two%20types%20of%20equalities%20in%20JavaScript&text=Referential%20equality%3A%20Determines%20whether%20the,each%20property%20in%20the%20operands. "Deep Comparison"). Also, I learned about JavaScript variadic functions. Variadic function is a function where the total number of parameters are unknown and can be adjusted at the time the method is called. Other programming languages like C also have this interesting feature. Moreover, I learned about graph data structure using an interesting example where I have to create a robot postman travel from one node to the other using graph data structure. I also wrote some test suites using jasmine to test how the graph works.

Memory property is emphasized of the VillageState in the particular section oif the book. For instance, the current place and the next place can be easily called because of this feature. "```hash-set```" and "```hash-update```" reminds me of this feature where the memory gets updated.

Graph data structure was familiar to me because I have learned graph data structure in different course, but I did not have any experiences implenting a graph and I was able to practice to write a graph. Also, deep comparison was a new concept for me since I have not learned that concept in any other courses.

The practice example of the delivery robot was interesting to me and it was a great example to learn and understand the graph data structure properly.

I was given to read some references regarding JavaScript to understand about the concepts and it was very helpful and it helped me understand the concepts pretty well.


 
```Number Of Words: 455, ```
```Average Reading Time: 4-5 minutes```

<!-- more -->

