    Title: Lab 22
    Date: 2022-12-06T15:53:49
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 22 - Broadcasting / Scaling layers of arrays / Scaling a colour channel / Converting to monochrome / Gradient
=================================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 22, I learned about broadcasting in Lab and it is basically converting one operation to another operation. Also, I learned about reshaping arrays. Reshaping array basically means changing the shape of an array. The shape of an array is the number of elements in each dimension. By reshaping we can add or remove dimensions or change number of elements in each dimension. Morover, I learned about Scaling layers of arrays. A scaling layer linearly scales and biases an input array U , giving an output Y = Scale. *U + Bias. I also learned to convert images from colour to monochrome. I also learned about gradient and one useful peration on images is to detect how they are changing locally. Roughly speaking the gradient can be thought about as specifying both how much the intensity is changing, and what direction that change is happening in. Octave returns that information as an (x,y) vector in the usual parallel array way. The following practice problem I used to practice Gradient,
</p>
<pre>
A = [0,0,0,0,0,1;
     0,1,1,1,0,0;
     0,1,1,1,0,1;
     0,1,1,1,1,0;
     0,1,1,1,1,0;
     0,0,0,0,0,0];

[Dx, Dy] = gradient(A);

imshow(A);
figure;
imshow(Dx);
figure;
imshow(Dy);
</pre>
<p>
I learned a lot of concepts in this lab. Specially, I got to learn about a wonderful real life use of arrays where they convert images from colour to monochrome using arrays.
</p>
<p>
I practiced using broadcasting in this lab. I have used broadcadsdting before, therefore, I'm familiar with the concept.
</p>
<p>
Reshaping arrays is a wonderful concept that I learned in this lab and it is very interesting concept.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, many reference materials were given which were so helpful because the materials were clearly written and understandable for beginners as well. An extra reference was given to further study about the Broadcasting concept.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 350 ```
```Average Reading Time: 2-3 minutes```

<!-- more -->

