    Title: Lab 14
    Date: 2022-10-31T20:32:08
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 14 - Pytest / Modules / Testing, docstring / Indentation / Exception
==========================================================================

<p>
In Lab 14, I started learning <i>Python</i>. I started practicing Python with a program called <i>humansize.py</i> that converts file sizes to human-readable form. I can run Python programs with <i>$ python program.py</i> command. Also, I learned how to use the debugger and I practiced debugging using the <i>humansize.py</i> program. I can start the debugger with <i>$ pudb3 program.py</i>. In addition, I learned how to write unit test cases in Python. A sample test file was given in the lab where the file extention is <i>.py</i>. I can run the tests using <i>$ pytest-3 file_name.py</i>. Also, the <i>pytest</i> should be imported in the test file and the function that you need to test. The test coverage can be obtained by running <i>$ pytest-3 --cov=mymodule --cov-report=term-missing</i> command. Furthermore, I learned about modules using a practice program called <i>client.py</i> and I had to import the <i>humansize</i> module into the file inorder to use the module. A amazing observation is that <i>if__name__=='__main__' does not run when imported into client.py. In addition, I learned about identation which is an important thing in Python because Python use identation to define blocks. A practice exercise was given in the lab to practice identation. Also, I learned about exception which is another importan concept in Python. A program was given in the lab to add try and catch block to practice exception and the completed program is as follows,
</p>

<pre>
import math

def fraction(a,b):
	try:
		return a/b
	except ZeroDivisionError:
		return math.nan
</pre>

<p>
I'm familiar with most of the concepts since I learned Racket and JavaScript. I have some experience with Python because I have written some small programs in Python inorder to practice Python few years ago. However, Modules and writing unit test cases were new concepts for me. Exception was not a new concept for me since I have written many exception in Java.
</p>
<p>
There are few new skills that I practiced in this lab such as writing unit test cases, writing exception, and writing modules.
</p>
<p>
It was interesting to know that when a module is imported why the main block is not running. I do not have a good idea about that, but I will do my research to find out why it and how it is happening.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a very good resouce was given to read to learn more about python concepts called <a href="http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/your-first-python-program.html#divingin">DiP3</a> which is very useful and informative.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 460 ```
```Average Reading Time: 4-5 minutes```
<!-- more -->

