    Title: Lab 20
    Date: 2022-11-29T03:15:14
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 20 - Using Arrayfun / Fully vectorizing / Cell Arrays / Variable-length argument lists
================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 20, I learned about using arrayfun and I used the practice example from the previous lab. I measure the execution time in loops and matrix execution times. I observed that the computation time for matrix is lower than the loop version and when the size is double the time does not doubled. Also, I learned about fully vectorizing using examples given in the lab. Vectorization is the process of converting an algorithm from operating on a single value at a time to operating on a set of values at one time. I tried to improve the execution time of arraydelta using vectorization and I could notice that it is very sensitive to the size of the range. In addition, I learned about cell arrays which means a data type with indexed data containers called cells, where each cell can contain any type of data. Also, the timeit function used in the lab 20 only works for single argument functions, octave provides a special input argument <i>varargin</i>, which collects all remaining arguments into a cell array, proving similar funcionality to the <i>.rest</i> argument in racket, or the <i>...rest</i> argument in JavaScript. I completed the given practice example in the lab to learn this concept which shown below,
</p>
<pre>
function timeit(reps, func, varargin)
    times = zeros(reps, 1);

    for i=1:reps
      tic(); func(varargin{:}); times(i) = toc();
    end

    times = sort(times);
    fprintf ('%s\tmedian=%.3fms median=%.3fms total=%.3fms\n',func2str(func), median(times)*1000,
             mean(times)*1000, sum(times)*1000);
endfunction

%!test "nullary function"
%! timeit(10000,@rand)

%!test "unary function"
%! timeit(10000,@rand,1)

%!test "Binary function"
%! timeit(10000,@plus,1,2)

%!test "Ternery function"
%! timeit(10000,@plus,1,2,3)
</pre>
<p>
Cell arrays is a new concept for me and I have not worked with cell arrays before. Cell arrays was hard, but after following the given reference material it was easy to understand the concept.
</p>
<p>
I practiced writing vectorization functions which is interesting.
</p>
<p>
I had hard time understanding cell arrays at first, but after reading the materials I was able to understand and it was interesting to me.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a reference was given to learn more about <a href="https://docs.octave.org/v4.0.3/Test-Functions.html">varagin</a> which is very informative and I was able to understand the concept clearly with the material.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 380 ```
```Average Reading Time: 2-3 minutes```
<!-- more -->

