    Title: Lab 15
    Date: 2022-11-03T12:21:27
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 15 - Globbing and List comprehensions / Dictionary Comprehensions / Filtered List Comprehensions / Using format
==========================================================================

<p>
In Lab 15, I learned about Globbing and list comprehensions, a list comprehension provides a compact way of mapping a list into another list by applying a function to each the elements of the list. List comprehensions are really closer to a convenient syntax for map, which I used in Racket. I practiced list comprehensions and globbing using the practice program that was given in the lab which is called <i>globex.py</i>. Also, I practiced a concept called <i>globbing</i>. The use of globbing is that it returns all the file paths that matches a specific patten. In addition, I got to practice <i>lambda</i> functions in the same program which is pretty much similar to the racket lambda function. Another concept that I learned in the lab was <i>Dictionary Comprehensions</i>. A dictionary comprehension is like a list comprehension, but it construct a dictionary instead of a list. Dictionaries are powerful built in data structures i Python that stores data as key-value pairs. Also, I learned about filtered list comprehensions using a program I wrote in Assignment 1 using Racket which is called <i>drop_divisible</i> where the program drops values that can be divided by 3 except for 3. A list comprehension provides a compact way of mapping a list into another list by applying a function to each element of the elements of the list without the use of if clause. I practiced the concept with a completing a program that was given in the lab and the program is as follows,
</p>
<pre>
from math import sqrt,ceil

def drop_divisible(n,lst):
    return [ j for j in lst if j==n or j % n != 0]

def sieve_with(candidates, lst):
    for c in candidates:
        lst=drop_divisible(c,lst)
    return lst

def sieve(n):
    return sieve_with(range(2,ceil(sqrt(n))+1), range(2,n))

</pre>

<p>
Dictionaries and globbing were new to me since I have not used those concepts. However, I am familiar with lists and using format because I have hands-on experience because I learned them in racket. Also, lambda function is familiar to me because I have learned that before.
</p>
<p>
I practice few skills in this lab such as writing lists and using format. Also, I learned how to use dictionaries and globbing.
</p>
<p>
I have not heard about the concept of globbing and I heard it for the first time. It is interesting to know that there is concept like that where you can get all the path of file that match a certain pattern.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a very good resouce was given to read to learn more about python concepts called <a href="http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/your-first-python-program.html#divingin">DiP3</a> which is very useful and informative. Also, some extra resources were about <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#lambda">lambda functions</a>, <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#map">map function</a>, and <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typesseq-range">range function</a> in Python.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 470 ```
```Average Reading Time: 4-5 minutes```
<!-- more -->

