    Title: Lab02
    Date: 2022-09-12T12:07:45
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 02 - GIT Tutorial Continued / Racket Tutorial / GIT Clone (Multiple Repos)
=======================================================================

I learned about git grep in part one of the lap and git grep is a very useful tool to find occurences of strings in the git repository which helps to delete and modify unwanted strings in the project. I used [Git Grep](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-grep "GIT GREP") as additional reference and the command I used is "```git grep disqus```". Also, I learned how to check what is about to be commited by using "```git diff --cached```" and it will only dsiplay the changes of tracked files that are in staging area. I used [Git Diff](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff "GIT DIFF") as a reference. Moreover, I learned an additonal command that I did not previously which is "```git commit -a```" and this command helps to add modified files to the index, and commit in one step, but it will not add new files. Furthermore, I learned about cleaning up generated files using "```raco frog --clean```" command and these files generated by some tools we use based on some source files and it is a common practice not to track generated files in version control. I can use "```git diff --stat```" command to check what is changed after cleaning he generated files I used [Generated Files](https://docs.racket-lang.org/frog/Quick_start.html?q=frig#%28part._.Project_file_tree%29 "Generated Files") as a source to identify the generated file. One more new thing I learned is to check the project history using "```git log```" command and we can add different keywords to the end and such as "```-p```" and "```--stat --summary```" to get the output based on your need. In addition, I learned about "Racket" which is a modern functional programming laguage and I learned how to install, run programs and debug with "Racket". Some programs I wrote are drawing shapes and printing out mesages. Also, I learned about "Racket" functions, scope and Lists using [Racket Tutorial](https://docs.racket-lang.org/quick/index.html "Racket Tutorial").

Working in multiple git repos is familiar to me since I was using git a lot when I did my co-op term. I use git commands like "```git clone```" and many more related to git while I was working. However, "Racket" was a new experience for since I did not have any background on "Racket".

I'm very bad at writing a commit message while committing my changes, and I practiced writing a good commit message and I asked the person who sat next to me in the lab to review my commit message to make sure it is understandable to him. I also followed [Commit Message Tutorial](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-better-git-commit-messages/ "Commit Message Tutorial") to learn how to write a good commit message. Also, I'm practicing how to write a journal.

"Racket Tutorial" was one thing that I got interested and it was interesting to learn about the "Racket" functions which can do many more things than they actually shows.

The lab instructions were crystal clear and it was easy to follow and understand. After going home I managed to clone the repository to my personal machine and see my changes following the lab instruction and without the help of the instructor.

```Number Of Words: 486, ```
```Average Reading Time: 5 minutes```

<!-- more -->

