    Title: Lab 13
    Date: 2022-10-27T15:28:20
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 13 - Timers / Timers Part II
=======================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 13, I learned about JavaScript timers. I used sample programs given in the lab where the program outputs an animation according to a given time interval using recursion. This programming is called <i>asynchronous programming</i> in JavaScript. Something was not right with the program I used for the first example because even if I move the <i>console.log</i> outside the loop, the output is still the same, but I later figured out that it is because of the delay between iterations and unlike other programming languages JavaScript does not have a <i>sleep</i> builtin to pause the current thread. As a workaround, JavaScript has an option called <i>timers</i>. The program I used to practice is as follows,
</p>

<pre>
function loop(i,str) {
    if (i>0) {
        console.log("\033c");
        console.log(str);
        setTimeout(function() { loop(i-1, str+"*"); }, 1000);
    }
}

loop(20,"*");

console.log("all done!");
</pre>

<p>
In the first part of the lab, I used recursion, but in the second part of the lab, I used timers using <i>setInterval</i>, but I had explicitly cancel the timer with <i>clearInterval</i> timer, if not it will run forever.
</p>
<p>
I was familiar with timers since I have used timers in one of my JavaScript project I did few years ago, adn it was easy for me to understand the concept.
</p>
<p>
It was intersting that amazing animations can be created with a simple concept like timers.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, there were not many resources given for this specific concept, but I read all the documents that was given in the lab.
</p>

```Number Of Words: 405 ```
```Average Reading Time: 3-4 minutes```

<!-- more -->

