    Title: Lab03
    Date: 2022-09-15T12:32:22
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 03 - Racket Unit Tests / GIT Bisect / Test Coverage in Racket
=================================================================

Questions from the previous Lab
-------------------------------

"DrRacket" is a good IDE and it is a bit different from what I have used before. "DrRacket" has the feature to display all the places an identifier have been used when I mouses over and identifier and I have never seen this feature in other IDEs that I used. Also, racket is a simple software and easy to use because the size of the application is not too big. I learned about "Racket" from the [Racket](https://racket-lang.org/ "Racket")

I have been using text editors to code for a long time and I started using IDEs recently. From my perspective, a text editor is a computer tool used to edit plain text files. However, IDEs are more complex than a text editor because they provide software environment for developers to write codes easily and provide all the developer tools as well.

Long term for REPL is Read-Eval-Print Loop and it is basically read user inputs and evaluate and then the results will be returned to the user. REPL is very interactive to explore tools available in environments or programming languages.

I learned new git concepts in this lab such as remote, merging, and conflict. A remote is a git repository that is hosted on the internet or another network. I followed a very useful tutorial about this on this [Website](https://www.gitkraken.com/learn/git/tutorials/what-is-git-remote "Website"). Also, git merging is putting a forked history back together again. For instance, you can cut out a branch from master branch and after you finish work on your branch you can merge your branch to the master branch. I learned about merging from the [Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches/git-merge "Tutorial"). Morover, conflicting means if two people try to edit the same file and the same line in two different branches and tries to merge them or in one branch the file is deleted, but in the other branch the file is edited. [Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches/merge-conflicts "Tutorial").

Also, I learned about unit tests in Racket which is interesting and I practiced with a [code](http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/labs/L03/_file.rkt/ "code").
 that was given to us in the lab. I used ```(check-equal? (my-+ 1 1) 2 "Simple addition")``` and ```(check-equal? (my-* 1 2) 2 "Simple multiplication")``` to practice.

I also, learned about Test Coverage tool. It is a great tool identify known bugs and odd behavior. It shows all the issues highlighted in yellow which is easier to identify.

Anotther thing that I learned is "```git bisect```". This is used to discover whether the commit has introduced a bug in the code it helps to track down the commit where the code works and where it does not work. I used "```git bisect --run "raco test file.rkt```" to practice. Also, I practiced "```git revert```" command to undo bad commits.


I'm familiar with ```"git bisect"``` and ```"git revert"``` but unit test in Racket and Test coverage tool in DrRacket is new to me and it was interesting to learn.

I needed more practice with Racket because Racket was new to me and this was a very good practice to me. I learned to write recursive functions and submodules with Racket. Also, Racket test coverage tool was interesting to learn.

I was struggling with the racket recursive functions, but managed to get help from the TA and I was able to understand the concept.

```Number Of Words: 490, ```
```Average Reading Time: 5-6 minutes```

<!-- more -->

