    Title: Lab 07
    Date: 2022-10-04T13:08:56
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 07 - Macros (Single Pattern Macros / Multiple Patterns and Recursion) / Redifining or
=================================================================

In Lab 07, I learned about Single Pattern Macros and Multiple Patterns and Recursion under Macros. A macro is a syntactic form with an associated transformer that expands the original form into existing forms [Macros](https://docs.racket-lang.org/guide/macros.html#:~:text=A%20macro%20is%20a%20syntactic,small%20set%20of%20core%20constructs. "Macros"). Similarly to many other languages, racket gives us pattern based macros that make simple transformation easy to use. The simple way to define a macro in racket is to use [define-syntax-rule](https://docs.racket-lang.org/reference/stx-patterns.html?q=define-syntax-rule#%28form._%28%28lib._racket%2Fprivate%2Fstxcase-scheme..rkt%29._with-syntax%29%29 "define-syntax-rule"). We can think of these syntax rules as functions that do not evaluate their arguments. Macros is a very important part in racket implimentation stratergy. Also, some syntax we saw in racket are implimented as a macro. I also learned to define "Or" in terms of "if" in a similar way to "And" using a practice problem given in the lab 07. I also learned about multiple patterns and recursion using ```let``` and ```let*```. Basically, ```let*``` behaves like a nested set of ```letS```. We can use recursion to impliment this. We have to use ```define-syntax``` with ```syntax-rules``` to make a recursive macro.

```let``` and ```let*``` were familar to me since I used them in a previous lab for this course, but concept of macro was new to me. I have used macro before, but I did not know it was called macro. However, it was a good learning experience for me.

I practiced how to use ```let``` and ```let*``` using the practice problems given in the lab. I understood the concept more clearly after I practice.

I was surprised to know about macros because even though I have used these before, I did not know they were called macros. Also, it was interestigng, how recursion is used to imliment macros.

Racket guide for macros were given as a reference which was optional to read, but after reading, I understood the concept very clearly. Also, for further understanding I used materials I found on the internet and I have linked some of them to this blog post.
 
```Number Of Words: 490, ```
```Average Reading Time: 6-7 minutes```

<!-- more -->

