    Title: Lab 16
    Date: 2022-11-15T15:07:38
    Tags: PUBLISHED

Lab 16 - Regular Expressions / Stripping Quotes / Handling Quoted Commas / Parsing more Columns
================================================================================================

<p>
In Lab 16, I learned about Regular Expressions in Python, regular expressions are a domain specific language that allow is to specify complicated string operations. <i>$</i> is used to identify the end of the string and <i>^</i> is used to identify the begining of the string. Also, I learned how to use <i>findall</i> function. Also, I learned about stripping quotes. In general, entries of CSV files can have quotes, but these are not consider part of the content. Also, I learned how to handle quoted commas, I used practice problems given in the lab to learn this concept. In addition, I learned how to parse more columns using a practice problem that was given in the lab exercise, the completed program is as follows,
</p>
<pre>
def split_row(string):
	col_regex = re.compile(r'("[^"]*"|[^,]+)')
	return [strip_quotes(col) for col in col_regex.findall(string) ]
</pre>
<p>
Stripping quotes was a new concept for me since I have not used that in any language, but it was not hard and it can be easily understandable after going through the lab exercises.
</p>
<p>
I practiced writing regular expressions with this lab.
</p>
<p>
It is interesting how multiple columns are parsed and it has to be handled seperately.
</p>
<p>
In the lab, a very good resouce was given to read to learn more about python concepts called <a href="http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/your-first-python-program.html#divingin">DiP3</a> which is very useful and informative. Also, a  <a href="http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/regular-expressions.html#streetaddresses">Case Study</a> was given in the lab to read and get familiarized with the topic. 
</p>

```Number Of Words: 390 ```
```Average Reading Time: 3-4 minutes```

<!-- more -->

